Update screenshots and information for BaA pt. 9 - Deployment (#179)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-2: api-9-deployment/deploying-to-render.md

Reviewer: Line 526:

The "Check the local server logs" often trips folks up, but if we make it clear that we're talking about the deployed instance, maybe that would help?
>Check all of the options that are recommended debugging steps when troubleshooting our deployed application.

When we land on the next set up page, enter `your-app-name` into the "Name" field to create an app with the name `your-app-name`. 

Replace `your-app-name` with the desired name of the app.

![Screenshot of web service deployment page after adding the app name](../assets/deployment/render-set-webservice-name.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-set-webservice-name.png))_

Note that the app name must be unique across all Render apps, not just our own apps. As a result, the name `hello-books-api` is already taken, as it was used in this walk-through! We will need to come up with our own name that has a unique touch. If we try to choose a name that has already been taken, Render will tack on random characters to create a unique name.

Next, we should confirm that the "Language" field is set to "Python 3". When deploying a web service to Render, it will try to be helpful and set the "Language" field for you, but it doesn't always select the correct option. You can click the current value of "Language" to see a drop down of the languages supported by Render and choose a new value if necessary.

> We also want to change the "Branch" field to choose which branch we want to pull our code from to create our deployed application. Most of the time we will select `main`, but in the case of the Hello Books API repo, we don't have a `main` branch. Instead we want to choose the branch that includes all the code and latest changes we want to be a part of our deployed app. For us, that should be `08b-nested-routes` or any later branch. 

Author: How do you feel about rewording it to:
```suggestion
We also want to change the "Branch" field to choose which branch we want to pull our code from to create our deployed application. Most of the time we will select `main`, and this should be the option students are using to deploy their repos. The example Hello Books API repo doesn't have a `main` branch, we have named branches per-lesson. In this example deployment, we will choose a branch that includes all the code and latest changes we want to be a part of our deployed app. For the purposes of our example, we will choose `08b-nested-routes` or any later branch. 
```

Around the branches, since we talk them through checking for and installing `gunicorn` I thought it would be okay listing `08b-nested-routes` as the starting branch, do you have concerns about keeping that branch instead of using `09a-deploying-to-render` here?

> We also want to change the "Branch" field to choose which branch we want to pull our code from to create our deployed application. Most of the time we will select `main`, but in the case of the Hello Books API repo, we don't have a `main` branch. Instead we want to choose the branch that includes all the code and latest changes we want to be a part of our deployed app. For us, that should be `08b-nested-routes` or any later branch. 

Reviewer: We do have the gunicorn information, but for me, the key difference is that we would need to have commited that to this branch for it to work. So it feels like we should pick a branch which actually has the gunicorn requirement included.

How about this? Rephrased a little bit for less distance between the author's voice and the reader. And the updated branch.
```suggestion
We also want to change the "Branch" field to choose which branch we want to pull our code from to create our deployed application. Most of the time we will select `main`, and this should be the branch we pick for our individual repos. The example Hello Books API repo doesn't have a `main` branch, we have named branches per-lesson. In this example deployment, we will choose a branch that includes all the code and latest changes we want to be a part of our deployed app. For the purposes of our example, we'll use `09a-deploying-to-render`. 
```

![Screenshot of Render after selecting the language and choosing the branch 08b-nested-routes](../assets/deployment/render-set-language-and-branch.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-set-language-and-branch.png))_

Next, we need to alter the "Start Command" field which defaults to the value `$ gunicorn app: app`. This field defines where in our code the `gunicorn` package should look to find what it needs to start our Flask web server. 

Update the "Start Command" field to `$ gunicorn "app:create_app()"`.

![Screenshot of changing app start command to gunicorn "app:create_app()"](../assets/deployment/render-update-start-command.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-update-start-command.png))_

> In the "Instance Type" section, Render will have a paid option selected by default. We want to ensure that the "Free" tier is selected before proceeding.

Author: Right? I was sad to see the change =/

![Screenshot of the Instance Type section with the Free tier selected"](../assets/deployment/render-choose-instance-type.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-choose-instance-type.png))_

Finally, scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the "Deploy Web Service" button.

![Screenshot of Create Web Service Button in Render](../assets/deployment/render-deploy-webservice-button.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-deploy-webservice-button.png))_

> ### !callout-warning

Author: Yeah, are you thinking to add a new info callout or to include that info along with the free app limits?

> ### !callout-warning

Reviewer: I had been thinking a different callout, but because of the free app limits, I was leaning towards having the text in the main flow between the screenshot and the callout. Something along the lines of
>If a prompt for payment information appears after clicking the Deploy Web Service button, we can dismiss the popup and then double check that the Instance Type selection is set to Free. By default, one of the paid tiers is selected, and we'll be prompted for payment information unless we change the setting.

It's a little repetitive with the initial instructions, but my thinking is that if they didn't change the setting, they probably missed reading that paragraph, so it doesn't hurt to list it again.

### !end-callout

> If a prompt for payment information appears after clicking the Deploy Web Service button, we can dismiss the popup and then double check that the `Instance Type` selection is set to `Free`. By default, one of the paid tiers is selected, and we'll be prompted for payment information unless we change the setting.

Reviewer: What if this were between the screenshot and the callout? If I click the button (looking at the screen shot to confirm that I'm clicking the right one) and then something unexpected happens, I'd be hoping to see that right with the image. With the callout in between, I feel like I'm going to see that, see that _isn't_ about what I'm encountering, and then I'm going to start looking elsewhere.

![Screenshot of selecting new PostgreSQL service](../assets/deployment/render-new-menu-postgresql.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-new-menu-postgresql.png))_

Just as with our web service, we need to give our database a name. Enter `your-database-name` into the "Name" field. 

Replace `your-database-name` with the desired name of the Postgres database. 

![Screenshot of new PostgreSQL database with name hello-books-api-db](../assets/deployment/render-set-new-db-name.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-set-new-db-name.png))_

Finally, scroll down to the bottom of the current page. Like we did with our webservice, we need to ensure that we select the "Free" tier under the "Instance Type" section, then click _Create Database_. 

![Screenshot of Create Database button on Render](../assets/deployment/render-set-instance-type-and-create-button.png)
_([Full size image](../assets/deployment/render-set-instance-type-and-create-button.png))_

Render will bring us to our new database's "Info" section. The "Status" field will show that it is "Creating" the database. Creating the database may take several minutes. 

> ![Screenshot of hello-books-api database being created](../assets/deployment/render-database-info-creating-db.png)

Author: I think this is a new change, because I don't remember it coming up previously 😢

> ![Screenshot of hello-books-api database being created](../assets/deployment/render-database-info-creating-db.png)

Reviewer: Would it be worth calling out that it has this restriction? I'm thinking from the standpoint of making sure folks aren't caught off-guard when everything breaks, and also being aware for when it comes to capstone time. Something like

>The free database tier is time limited, and Render will remove your database, along with any data, after a set period of time unless the plan is upgraded to a paid tier. This is fine for our purposes now when we're gaining deployment experience, but we should keep this mind if we want to deploy any projects that we would like to have run for a longer time. We can always create a new database when the original is removed, but we would need to plan ahead in order to migrate any data from the original database that we would like to preseve.

We can use the browser to make `GET` requests to any endpoint defined in our project, now using our deployed Render URL instead of `localhost`.

> We can find our URL on our deployed application's dashboard, listed just under the name of our web service application. Render URLs will take the form `https://your-app-name.onrender.com` Our demonstration has the URL `https://hello-books-api-1.onrender.com`.

Author: I know we used to have `hello-books-api.onrender.com` but it isn't on the cs-fun render account. I can't remember the exact situation but I couldn't use it when deploying and taking screenshots. 

I'll add a note that they should expect to see an error if they try navigating to the page since we do not keep the app running outside of demos.
